README.md, before:

Stellarium Web Engine
=====================

About
-----

Stellarium Web Engine is a JavaScript planetarium renderer using
WebGL that can be embedded into a website.

Features
--------

- Atmosphere simulation.
- Gaia stars database access (more than 1 billion stars).
- HiPS surveys rendering.
- High resolution planet textures.
- Constellations.
- Support for adding layers and shapes in the sky view.
- Landscapes.


Build the javascript version
----------------------------

You need to make sure you have both emscripten and sconstruct installed.

    # Setup emscripten path.
    source $PATH_TO_EMSDK/emsdk_env.sh

    # Build stellarium-web-engine.js and stellarium-web-engine.wasm
    # This will also copy the files into html/static/js
    make js

    # Now see apps/simple-html/ to try the library in a browser.


Contributing
------------

In order for your contribution to Stellarium Web Engine to be accepted, you have to sign the
[Stellarium Web Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](doc/cla/sign-cla.md).

Commit message:

prebuilt working version
prebuilt version of the app and more clear instructions to build if modifications are needed, this version no longer checks for the type stars from the CDN's properties response because in the public CDN provided it does not provide any type for starshttps://data.stellarium.org/surveys/gaia/properties

README.md, after:

Stellarium Web Engine
=====================

About
-----

Stellarium Web Engine is a JavaScript planetarium renderer using
WebGL that can be embedded into a website.

Features
--------

- Atmosphere simulation.
- Gaia stars database access (more than 1 billion stars).
- HiPS surveys rendering.
- High resolution planet textures.
- Constellations.
- Support for adding layers and shapes in the sky view.
- Landscapes.


Build the javascript version
----------------------------

You need to make sure you have both emscripten 1.40.1 and sconstruct installed.

    # 1.to install emscripten:
    
    git clone https://github.com/emscripten-core/emsdk.git
    cd emsdk
    
    # 2. if you're using arm machine (apple silicon) open terminal in rosetta (close it -> right click info -> check open with rosetta) and modify the emsdk.py file for x84_64 arch

    nano emsdk.py
    # then find   ARCH = 'arm64' or ARCH = 'arm' and change it to ARCH = 'x86_64'

    # install 1.40.1 emsdk (newer versions will not build)
    ./emsdk install 1.40.1
    ./emsdk activate 1.40.1
    source ./emsdk_env.sh


    # to install sconstruct
    export PATH="$PATH_TO_EMSDK/python/3.13.3_64bit/bin:$PATH"
    # Validate that python is indeed 3.13:
    python3 -V
    
    # install scons for the current session python wich is the same one for emsdk
    pip3 install scons

    # Build stellarium-web-engine.js and stellarium-web-engine.wasm
    # This will also copy the files into html/static/js
    make js

    # Now see apps/simple-html/ to try the library in a browser.


Contributing
------------

In order for your contribution to Stellarium Web Engine to be accepted, you have to sign the
[Stellarium Web Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](doc/cla/sign-cla.md).
